OK so until now what we've done is well all our circuits included earmuffs resistors
and well those were constants.
And when you analyze kind of circuits with only constant amps and resistances it leads to currents it
leads to voltages and it leads to kind of power that are also constant which means they're independent
of time.
So what follows.
Now we're going to include new components in our circuits.
We're going to include capacitors
and capacitors are going to lead to currents voltages to charges to power that depend on time.
OK.
So that's going to be the major difference.
We're going to look in a lot of detail in the section on what is the difference between a charging versus
discharging a capacitor.
The symbol for a capacitor in our circuits are going to be represented by simply just parallel plates
like this.
You remember the units for a capacitor are measured in Feraud And typically you just use the letter
C and again we can have we use prefixes to denote kind of micro Feraud Pico Feraud different values
of the capacitance.
So here's a simple kind of sketch here of a charge capacitor or the capacitor here is initially charged
with some charge q zero on it.
When you define the charge of a capacitor you typically defining that one plate has a positive charge
and the other plate has equal but opposite charge.
However you typically only define it with one letter either Q zero as an initial charge or sometimes
you just use the letter Q And that value now is going to change.
It's going to be a function that depends on time the relationship that's important for capacitors is
that the charge on the plates is proportional to the potential difference between the plates and that's
going to be an important formula for us going forward.
So even at any specific time the charge on the plates again it's proportional to the voltage between
the plates.
Again one of them would be at a higher electrical potential.
The other plate might be at a lower electrical potential and the constant that links them together is
the value of the capacitance.
In case you don't remember this is an important equation for us for capacitors and it doesn't matter
what type of shape the capacitor is.
This formula holds whether you're dealing with parallel plates or concentric tubes or spheres.
It's still the same formula.
All right.
So let's get started.
We're going to learn all about capacitors and how to analyze circuits dealing with capacitors.
The other thing we're going to see a lot of now are switches in our circuits because we're going to
close the switch and see what happens as a function of time.